Nachrichtentechnisches Projekt - 2023

Tasks for the final project report
version June 23th 

> RAW data analysis and signal processing <

> to be done in groups of about 5 students,
> either you work together on all tasks, or you split them and explicitely mention who was working on which tasks.


Select the data files according to your group number.

Saura - array beam, 4x individual antennas

1) Plot the spectra for receiver 1 and one of the other four for all ranges for magnitude and phase (use e.g. pcolor). Maintain a proper frequency axis scaling... (also for the latter plots)

2) Compare the spectra for:
a) superposition of the time series of receiver channels 2-5
b) combination of the individual spectra of receiver channels 2-5

3) Apply a suitable number of coherent and/or incoherent integrations (CI/NCI) to the data and show the spectra for the receiver 1 and one of the other four for all ranges for magnitude and phase (use e.g. pcolor). Compare with 1) !

4) Derive and show the cross-spectra for receiver channel 2-5 in magnitude and phase. Use the integrated data as CI/NCI applied in 3).


MAARSY - array beam, 3x subarray
1st RAW (vertical beam, 30s?)
5) Get the 1st MAARSY RAW file and Apply a suitable number of coherent and/or incoherent integrations to the data and show the spectra for the receiver 1 and one of the other three for all ranges for magnitude and phase (use e.g. pcolor). 
Also derive and show the cross-spectra in magnitude and phase for receiver 2-4.

2nd RAW (vertical beam, 1day)
6) Get the 2nd MAARSY RAW file and 
a) plot the echo power for all ranges for receiver 1 and the superposition of the other three.
b) Derive the Angle-of-Arrival for the receiver channel 2-4 for each time sample (e.g. pcolor plots for phi, theta).


7) Interferometry - the shared RAW is NOT used HERE! -> SYNTHETIC !
Create your own sensor layout (circular (ring), spiral, random) in x-y-plane.
Use 6 sensors and test those for 2 different distributions (distances/spacing ~1 WL) between the sensors.
First, assume equal phasing for all sensors and verify the vertical looking angle. (show corresponding plot)
Simulate the coverage area (possible AOA-positions), by e.g. test MANY random phases for the sensors and derive the positions.



Solve the given tasks in Python, use any library or source you like, but mention/cite it!


Present your results in a report (PDF) with some explanations, findings,..., don't put the Python scripts in the PDF! Add a ZIP file to your PDF, that contains your Python scripts - name the scripts according your group and the task numbers!

Beautify the report as well as your plots - e.g. apply a reasonable SNR-threshold in the plots and scaling to beautify them.

Use proper English!


->>>
End of examination period: July 14

submission of the report by July 9 23:59LT

online defense - depends on students preferrence
->>>
